---
title: I hate rules and I want as few of them as possible in my game.
toc: true
layout: single
---

All poasts are my own opinion and preference and as such are infallible and perfect.

Every mechanic and every rule introduced to a game imposes a cost. The game becomes heavier. Everything you do now has more friction. You're in a tense fight, you duck behind a crate and shoot at your assailants. Someone half-remembers a rule about half cover, or maybe this counts as full cover, someone else remembers that there is a rule about shooting from behind cover and anyway can you really take cover twice in a move? Shouldn't you just shoot and then take cover? Or do you count as "in-cover" the entire time? And so it begins. The rulebooks come out. Your cool move that seemed reasonable is now being deliberated by the Supreme Court.

I'm told that once everyone has spent long enough with a system everything really starts moving smoothly. That sounds plausible, but more often it seems that everyone remembers slightly different versions of the same rule, or at least two people disagree and the rulebooks come out anyway. Often tables end up just making something up that makes more sense contextually anyway. People who didn't even know the rule existed would have done something that made sense contextually and moved on. 

Obviously games like this need rules, but rules should help the game more than they hurt. That requirement should be enforced for every rule, *especially* small ones. Every rule should be simultaneously as modular and as load-bearing as possible. If a whole set of rules can be replaced by a mechanic or framework without hurting the game, even better. There are many ways of doing this. Advantage, disadvantage, adding a score, whatever.

This is one of the reasons I try to make so many systems similar, so that if you need to make something on the fly it'll probably work just fine with everything else. 

This is also why numbers in the systems presented tend to stay small, every point should ideally feel meaningful. The shape of the 2d6 probability curve is very useful for making small bonuses meaningful, and especially small differences in bonuses. But that's for another post.

I'm not going to talk about making good rules here because I've never made one. All I want to do here is explain my general dislike of single-purpose and specific rules, which is why try to avoid specific rules for specific situations. Sometimes this is hard to avoid. There is a rule for attempting to use two hands for a weapon that is [one-handed]. That is not all that disimilar from cover, half-cover, or shooting from cover. Likely I will end up having to cut, add, change rules like that so that they won't get in the way.

I think these small rules tend to shape the game into one that is built around them a bit too much. They corall players into coloring within the lines, thinking that the available options are only what there are rules for, not engaging with the actual place and world of the ttrpg. By overspecifying small things they undermine the tactility of the world. This is my attempt to find some set of rules that should only ever encourage players to engage with the tactile detail of the world.

This is in drafts because it isn't very clear. I'm not articulating the actual Bit.