why are the rules the way they are

### this was re: the very cooked tactile weapon system

#### Why use this system?

Say you have a character who gets some bonus with axes and hammers, this expresses that you're a strong character who does overwhelming strikes with heavy STR-based weapons, you're not some sort of saber duelist. Do you get advantage with a warhammer? What if you're trying to use the pick side of a warhammer? Using the pick is the same motion as using the hammer, and its the same weapon, so shouldn't you get the same bonus? Doesn't it follow, then, that you should get the same bonus with warpicks? What if you find a sword with a forward curving blade so dramatic that the sword is basically just an axe with a hilt? Shouldn't you get your axe bonus with that? This is without getting into the migraine that is "pole weapons" (poleaxe, bill, partizan, halberd, bardiche, glaive, pike...). This system allows us to neatly avoid the question of what weapon or what attack is axe-like or spear-like in some context or another and it allows us to avoid having a rigid taxonomy of weapons all while still engaging with the different advantages or features of different weapons. It also lets us create all sorts of goofy fantasy weapons without having to quickly change the taxonomy, all we do is describe how the fantasy weapon is built and the attacks you do with it and the weapon will work with existing skills and characters.

In this system we just describe the weapon itself and some basic qualities about the attack. A particular poleaxe is just a [two-handed] [shafted] weapon with [reach: 1-3] a particular Speed and To-Hit, and a couple moves. Maybe it has an axe head, a pick, and a spear. So it has a (P) [thrusting] attack, an (S) [swinging: leading] and a (P) [swinging: leading]. Maybe you have skills that work very well with axes, but you expect that this sort of multi-use weapon with a lot of reach might come in handy for hunting down a specific type of monster. You might choose then to take this pole-weapon with a relatively better (S) [swinging: leading] attack so you can leverage the axe-related skills you already have. This also helps us express skill transfer from different types of weapons. Your character is very good at two-handed axes and you find a one-handed axe that is really useful in some situations, maybe it applies some particular status effect. There's going to be a lot of skill overlap, you just won't get anything that requires [two-handed]. That's all there is to it.

### A Case for Encumbrance, Rations, etc.

Logistical rules for encumbrance, rations, etc. have a bad reputation. Often they feel like meaningless and slow bookkeeping. These rules are meant to be light enough that they should not slow the game down, but I want quickly go over why these rules are worth having in the first place.

These rules force players to make decisions about what they're going to take with them and what they're going to prepare for. Players and NPCs are very close to one another in HP and damage output in this game. The way you get an edge on someone else in combat is figuring out what your best option is given what you've prepared and the resources you have. The strength of most items and abilities are contextual, but this won't matter or make the game more interesting if you can carry around a tool for every context.

Encumbrance rules also add depth outside of combat. When trading with someone on the road, you have to trade with something you brought. If you're delivering something to someone or hiding something, you have to keep it somewhere. These logistical questions should cause you to engage with the world like it's a real place and make decisions about what you want to take with you and what you want to leave, what is important to your character and why. If your character is a rugged outlander that knows how to survive in the wilderness, you have an important role in the party, you're the reason the party is able to pack light and travel quickly, you're the reason that the party can survive at all when you run out of rations. There are many more opportunities for non-combat character decisions to be important.

All of this allows different weapons, items, and characters to shine in different contexts. This encourages different people in the party to take up different roles, acquire skills, and character adapts to situations they find themselves in.