---
title: Some Thoughts About Catastrophic Failure in the Social Rolls
---

Catastrophic Failure is an odd thing to have in the game. It takes away agency from the player and forces them to flub important moments. This is not ideal. I think it's probably worth it for what it brings to the game though. With this change, trying to get a read on someone instead of just talking to them has a risk associated with it so you won't be trying it literally all of the time. It may be that in many situations you should just try and navigate without rolls. 

Catastrophic failure sets up the possibility for characters or NPCs who are not physically intimidating, but *brutal* to be grilled by or to try and deceive. One could imagine a corrupt elderly politician who the players must attempt to outwit or remove from power who is just a nightmare to deal with. He manipulates people, twists their words, makes them say things they didn't mean to say. You could pick up skills that make you much harder to read and then say something that seems like an obvious lie, baiting someone into attempting to roll a check on you at which point they get a catastrophic failure, triumphantly call you out, and completely show their hand.

Something that may or may not be a problem however is the narrowness of the margins. Catastrophic Failure and Complete Success are only 6 points away from one another. Because of the distribution of the 2d6, this means that these 6 points cover a ton of probability mass (assuming no modifiers), but that's fully a cope. The reason the thresholds are at 3 is that a lot of other thresholds are at 3 including the other social rules, and I wanted the rules to be easier to remember. What this means is that characters with high modifiers socially will tend to completely roll characters with low modifiers. Is this a bug or a feature? Hard to say. Probably depends on your table. Does this help to create the sort of story the rest of the system will tend to create? Not sure. I think so, weakly.

The same effect these rules are aiming for could certainly be achieved with sufficiently good role playing, preparation, writing, and *outstanding* improv and acting on the part of the DM, but this is very rare and very difficult. Regardless, most groups that are able to play social games that well will tend to ignore or avoid leaning too much on social rules that exist in their system. At least, as far as I can tell. I think a framework that encourages and supports this sort of play is useful and valuable, anyway. TTRPG players may need social crutches is what I'm saying. Most games are not your favorite professionally produced DnD campaign.