---
title: Do We Really Need to Know How Dextrous a Horse Isn't?
---

A small problem came up recently. Currently, any scores not listed for a character are treated as being at 0. This has worked fine for humanoid characters, but it quickly breaks down for a horse. A horse doesn't have many relevant scores, maybe just STR, so the reasonable and quick way to create a horse NPC would be to just list movement speed and maybe STR. Of course, this means that the horse has as much DEX as a normal person. Horses do not have thumbs, they don't even have fingers. There's a problem here.

There are a couple ways of dealing with this.

### Group-Relative Scores

Maybe a 0 here means that the horse is only as DEXtrous as any other horse. This isn't *too* inelegant. Unfortunately, this is not how scores work anywhere else in the game. They are used in contests, so a 1 DEX mod should mean basically the same no matter who has it. Contests are not graded on a curve. This does not work.

This failed rule does gesture at another issue though. What it means for a horse to be agile will be different from what it means for a person to be agile. If we grant that the base score system is on a human scale, how agile is a horse on that same scale? Is that a meaningful question?

### "Simple" NPCs

Maybe a [simple] tag could be added to some NPCs. The score of any non-listed score for one of these NPCs could be considered -3, or automatic failure. Of course the problem here is that now one has to specify every score that might come up in a way that violates the goal of absolute modularity. Surely the horse has more than -3 CON right? Maybe for an NPC that is simple enough this won't be an issue, a horse can't be expected to have a TECHNOLOGY score or whatever. This isn't a rule contributing to the game and fitting in nicely with the rest of the rules, it's just bad a rule for the sake of having a rule.

### Preferring Not To

[Rules are bad](2022-09-24-rulesbad.md). An edge case like this prompts me to reexamine the ruleset in question. If there is an elegant intuitive change that would make the rules more useful and expressive, then that change should be made. If there is a small rule or condition that fixes the edge case, rounds the rules out, and gives players some more options, then that rule should be put in place. Neither of those things seem true.  

We could make people check more boxes when creating entities. Every score could come with a set of requirements. NPCs can be jammed into a typology where each type has slightly different rules and mechanics. When faced with ambiguity you can refer to rules for what a certain score means in a certain context in order to execute a predictable algorithm and it will be miserable.

I call this an edge case, but am I right about that? Is it really an edge case? Yes. There may be plenty of settings with lots of horses, but why would a horse even be rolling a DEX check in the first place? How would you plan for that beforehand when creating the horse NPC? If you're in a prison cell trying to get your tied up horse to quietly grab the keys and toss them to you, friend you're in an edge case (and a pretty fun game). This inconsistency does seem to demand a rule be made, but I would prefer not to. Just play the game, either the horse can't make the DEX check or you just make up something that lines up with the tone of your game, it's fine. 

If you need more of a framework, the score is probably between like 0 and -3 for this sort of thing. You could have the check made with one die. In a more serious game the horse just cannot make a DEX check. In a more goofy game the horse might make its first DEX check at -3, immediately roll two sixes, pickpocket the guard with his tongue and now you've got a 2 DEX crimehorse with a circus-related backstory and a quest for revenge against a clown named Bilphus. Sick.