

The decision is between 3 and 4 AP as standard for a given turn.  
What this will really change is how much one can do in a given round of combat. The worry is that rounds will start to drag, people will spend too much time trying to figure out how to optimally spend the 4 AP. Also, fast weapons get a lot faster.

# Basic AP Cost Components

## 3 AP
 
- (1n1)
- (1n2)
- (2n1)
- (1n3) ?? probably never exists on its own.

## 4 AP

- (1n1) 
- (1n2)
- (2n1)
- (3n1)
  
These are almost the same in basic AP costs. How they differ largely comes down to how costs are strung together. Specifically, how many meaningful combinations there are and how much they rely on delayed AP return.  
Obviously other speeds like (1n4) can exist, but they're going to be very uncommon. They're not likely to be part of a basic cost string.

# AP Cost Sequences

## 3 AP

#### (1n1)

3 attacks per turn.  
Daggers, knives. This is as fast as any weapon can be.

#### (1n1)->(1n2)

2 attacks per turn when maximizing attacks.  
1,2, or 3 in a turn. specifically, 1->3->1->3 or 2->2->2->2.  

Swords, fast weapons.

#### (1n1)->(2n1)

2 attacks per turn when maximizing attacks, but you cannot do anything besides attack.
1 or 2. specifically 2->2->2 if you're doing nothing else.

Large weapons, medium speed. 2 attacks if you don't want to do anything else.

#### (1n2)

1.5 attacks per turn when maximizing attacks
3->0 or 2->1
Swords.

#### (2n1)

1 attack per turn with an AP left over.
Large heavy weapons. One attack and one more option.
Large axe.

#### (1n3) ?? Does anything past this section actually have reason to show up?

1 attack per turn when, but with high variability.
Specifically 1->1->1, or 2->1->0, or 3->0->0
??? very tiring weapons that are very fast for some reason? This speed is interesting mechanically, but I don't see how a weapon ends up with this speed by default and not as the result of some skill.

#### (1n3)->(2n1)
1 attack per turn, some variability.
2->1->1 and 1 again as long as you keep attacking.
Massive weapons.

#### (1n3)->(3n1)

1 attack per turn, where attacking every turn is very tiring.  
1(with 2 other AP)->1(with 1 other AP)->1(with 0 other AP)  
Absolutely massive weapons, impractically huge.

## 4 AP

#### (1n1)

4 attacks per turn, maximum flexibility.
Shivs, unarmed strikes, brass knuckles.

#### (1n1)->(1n1)->(1n2)

3 attacks per turn, high flexibility.
4->2->4->2 or 3(1 extra)->3->3
Shortswords, fast swords, especially fast weapons.

#### (1n1)->(1n2)

2/3 attacks per turn, flexible.
4->1 or 3->2 or 2(2 extra)->2(1 extra)
Quick weapons, swords.

#### (1n1)->(2n1)

2 attacks per turn.
2(1 extra)->2(1 extra)
Most weapons

#### (2n1)

2 attacks per turn.
2->2 using all your AP
Large weapons.

#### (2n1)->(3n1)

1 attack per move, extra AP.
Massive weapons.

#### (3n1)

1 attack per move, little AP.
Enourmous weapons, unclear this would ever practically exist.