why are the rules the way they are

### this was re: the very cooked tactile weapon system

#### Why use this system?

Say you have a character who gets some bonus with axes and hammers, this expresses that you're a strong character who does overwhelming strikes with heavy STR-based weapons, you're not some sort of saber duelist. Do you get advantage with a warhammer? What if you're trying to use the pick side of a warhammer? Using the pick is the same motion as using the hammer, and its the same weapon, so shouldn't you get the same bonus? Doesn't it follow, then, that you should get the same bonus with warpicks? What if you find a sword with a forward curving blade so dramatic that the sword is basically just an axe with a hilt? Shouldn't you get your axe bonus with that? This is without getting into the migraine that is "pole weapons" (poleaxe, bill, partizan, halberd, bardiche, glaive, pike...). This system allows us to neatly avoid the question of what weapon or what attack is axe-like or spear-like in some context or another and it allows us to avoid having a rigid taxonomy of weapons all while still engaging with the different advantages or features of different weapons. It also lets us create all sorts of goofy fantasy weapons without having to quickly change the taxonomy, all we do is describe how the fantasy weapon is built and the attacks you do with it and the weapon will work with existing skills and characters.

In this system we just describe the weapon itself and some basic qualities about the attack. A particular poleaxe is just a [two-handed] [shafted] weapon with [reach: 1-3] a particular Speed and To-Hit, and a couple moves. Maybe it has an axe head, a pick, and a spear. So it has a (P) [thrusting] attack, an (S) [swinging: leading] and a (P) [swinging: leading]. Maybe you have skills that work very well with axes, but you expect that this sort of multi-use weapon with a lot of reach might come in handy for hunting down a specific type of monster. You might choose then to take this pole-weapon with a relatively better (S) [swinging: leading] attack so you can leverage the axe-related skills you already have. This also helps us express skill transfer from different types of weapons. Your character is very good at two-handed axes and you find a one-handed axe that is really useful in some situations, maybe it applies some particular status effect. There's going to be a lot of skill overlap, you just won't get anything that requires [two-handed]. That's all there is to it.